Primo instructions the boring half. (#80)
V1EngineeringInc/V1EngineeringInc-Docs: docs/mpcnc/trucks.md

# Assembling The Trucks

Click on the images to embiggen.

## Bearings
![!MPCNC Truck parts](https://www.v1engineering.com/wp-content/uploads/2020/06/TParts-scaled.jpg){: width="400"}

* You will need 5 sets of 5/16 x 1 1/2" (M8 x 40mm) Bolts and locking nuts.
* Two 1/2" sockets and ratchets (or 13mm for M8's).
* 5 Bearings.
* Printed Truck and Truck Mirrored parts.

___

## Tension Bolts
![!MPCNC truck tension bolts](https://www.v1engineering.com/wp-content/uploads/2020/06/Tension-scaled.jpg){: width="400"}

> * Pay attention to the direction of the bolt heads.

Reviewer: Maybe a note?

* Insert a bearing in the truck and fit the bolts.
* Just seat the locking nut, these will get adjusted later. Leave these loose.

> 

Reviewer: I don't have the hardware with me, but is this 2 bolts/truck? Maybe that's worth saying. I'm not sure how far to go in this step before I stop.

___

## Stationary Bearings
![!MPCNC stationary bearings](https://www.v1engineering.com/wp-content/uploads/2020/06/AllBearings-scaled.jpg){: width="400"}

* Fit the last 3 bearings and bolt sets.
* Notice the bolt orientation, nuts towards the rails.
* Snug these up. About 7in/lbs.

!!! Caution

>     Using ratchets makes overtightening the bolts very easy. There are small 1mm built in spacers in the printed parts, if you crush these you are about 3x too tight. Loose is better than tight, If you work on your own car it is wayyyyyy less that any bolt you have ever tightened.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Using ratchets makes over tightening the bolts very easy. There are small 1mm built in spacers in the printed parts, if you crush these you are about 3x too tight. Loose is better than tight, If you work on your own car it is wayyyyyy less that any bolt you have ever tightened.
```

___

## Set The Truck Tension
![!MPCNC set the tension](https://www.v1engineering.com/wp-content/uploads/2020/06/Set-Tension-scaled.jpg){: width="400"}

* Insert a rail into the truck.

> * You are looking for all bearings to make contact and just a hint of tension. If you tip the rail at a 45 degree angle the trucks should slowly move. Too tight and they will stay, too loose and they will drop right off.

Reviewer: I like this. Should we warn people that if they are using their hulk arms, they might have the wrong sized tubes? Maybe I'm being paranoid.

* Tension bolth bolts evenly, for a new print this should actually just be good with no extra tension needed. If this is the case just snug up the tension bolts until the heads and nuts are touching the plastic. Holding not adding to the current tension.

___

## Truck Clamp
![!MPCNC clamp parts](https://www.v1engineering.com/wp-content/uploads/2020/06/Addclamp-scaled.jpg){: width="400"}

* You will need the printed Truck Clamp's.
* M5 x 30mm Screw and lock nut.
* \#2 screwdriver.

![!MPCNC clamp assembled](https://www.v1engineering.com/wp-content/uploads/2020/06/Looseclamp-scaled.jpg){: width="400"}

* Leave these loose, just engaging the nylocks. The rail will be added later.

> * For all the screws with captured nuts it is best to prethread them to loosen them up a bit to prevent ruining the printed parts.

Reviewer: Another possible tip here.

___

## Belts and Idlers

> ![!MPCNC adding belts](https://www.v1engineering.com/wp-content/uploads/2020/06/Add-Belt-scaled.jpg){: width="400"}

Reviewer: Um. This part looks freaking awesome.

* You will need two idlers for each truck.
* Two M5 screws and nuts
* \#2 screw driver

!!! Tip
    If you add the belts first it is easier than trying to fish them through later. Each axis has a mirrored set of trucks so that is an easy way to also pair up the belts.

![!MPCNC adding idlers](https://www.v1engineering.com/wp-content/uploads/2020/06/Idlers-scaled.jpg){: width="400"}

* Tuck in the Idlers into the pocket in the trucks.
* Tighten the screws just tight enough to seat the nut all the way then back off a 1/2 turn.
* Ensure the idlers are free spinning.

___

## Pulleys
![!MPCNC stepper parts](https://www.v1engineering.com/wp-content/uploads/2020/06/Pulley1-scaled.jpg){: width="400"}

* Steppers
* Pulleys
* Wire Darryl / Pulley spacer

> * (optional) [Loctite](https://shop.v1engineering.com/collections/miscellaneous/products/0-5ml-threadlocker-242)

Reviewer: "optional". That is forum job security.
